(caseprofile-bplim)=
# Banco de Portugal

The [Banco de Portugal Microdata Research
Laboratory](https://bplim.bportugal.pt/content/access-0) (BPLIM) provides access
to datasets about the Portuguese economy. The following summary is based on the
BPLIM [Guide for
Researchers](https://msites-dee-bplim-prd.azurewebsites.net/sites/default/files/guide_for_researchers_v202210.pdf).

## Data access
Data can only be accessed using BPLIM's dedicated servers. Under some
circumstances, researchers maybe granted surrogate access to the server, where
BPLIM staff execute scripts written by an external researcher and outputs are 
shared after review. Internal researchers have broader access to BPLIM datasets
while external researchers must apply for access to BPLIM data including a
detailed project description.

Datasets made available to external researchers are classified as low, medium,
or high confidentiality.  Datasets classified with medium confidentiality have
modified values (perturbed data) and those with high confidentiality contain
modified values and are restriced to a subsample of observations. BPLIM may
provide modified versions of the original datasets to external researchers to
develop their analysis, but these are not valid for research purposes.
Researchers must then request that BPLIM run their analysis on the original
data.

## Statistical software

BPLIM servers provide a Linux environment with Stata, R, and Julia. BPLIM staff
can assist researchers with installing additional packages for their project.
BPLIM has also developed custom Stata packages. 

## Outputs

External researchers are never allowed to transfer data to or from BPLIM's
servers. For external researchers, BPLIM staff will verify that all outputs
conform to policies (termed "output verification").

## Archiving

When a project is "closed", BPLIM will archive a copy of all analysis files and
all files found in specific project folders. All other files will be deleted
unless the researcher explicitly request and justify why they must be archived.

## Citation

BPLIM requests that all datasets be cited

## Replication verification

BPLIM will work with third-parties reponsible for verifying the replicability of
results (including data editors, certification services, or individual
researchers). 

