(conceptual-model)=
# Conceptual Model

The TRACE project is developing a set of infrastructure elements that can be
used by system owners to:

1. declare the dimensions of computational transparency supported by their
   platform;
2. certify that a specific computational workflow was executed on the platform; and
3. bundle artifacts along records of their execution and certify them for
   dissemination.

TRACE will result in a specification as well as a reference software
implementation based on the conceptual model described here. 

```{figure} images/trace-overview-flowchart.png
---
name: trace-overview
---
TRACE System Overview
```

At the core of the TRACE model is the [Transparency-Certified
System](element-trace-system) or TRACE System. TRACE systems are responsible for
the execution of computational workflows on behalf of researchers where
guaranteeing the transparency of results is important. TRACE system owners
maintain a structured document, the [TRACE System
Certificate](element-trace-certificate), that specifies how transparency is
supported by the system and a signing key associated with the certificate. TRACE
systems execute computational workflows, possibly collecting runtime and
computational provenance information, and produce a [Transparent Research
Object](element-tro) (TRO). TROs are a collection of computational
artifacts (inputs, outputs, code, environment) along with records of their
execution with the system, [signed](element-signature) by the system within
which they were executed.

(element-trace-system)=
## Transparency-Certified System (TRACE System)

A TRACE system is any structured process that can be used to generate a
[TRO](element-tro) including a specific computational platform; a special queue
on a job scheduling system; or a person-centric documented workflow. The purpose
of the TRACE system is to certify that a computational workflow was executed and
to communicate details about how the system ensures the transparency of results.

(element-trace-certificate)=
## TRACE System Certificate


A TRACE System Certificate is a structured document that describes how TROs are
produced by a TRACE System and how the system ensures results transparency and
reproducibility. It includes the following information:

* Assertions about supported transparency levels and features (see
  [transparency questions](questions)).
* Links to relevant versions of organizational policy and workflow documentation.
* Public key of a digital signature used to sign TROs.

(element-tro)=
## Transparency-Certified Research Objects (TRO)

TRACE Systems produce Transparency-Certified Research Objects (TROs) which can
be used for dissemination and review. 

A TRO is an aggregation of computational research artifacts, records of their
execution within a particular system, technical metadata about their contents,
digitally signed by the system within which they are executed. The central
purpose of a TRO is to provide a trustworthy record of computations used to
obtain results, eliminating the need for verification through repeating
computations. TROs are produced by TRACE Systems and may be consumed by other
researchers, replicators, or reviewers. The TRO will be signed by the system
owner using a digital signature. The integrity of the TRO can be verified using
the affixed signature.

(element-signature)=
## Digital signature

A TRACE system owner maintains a signing key or certificate used to digitally
sign TROs created by the system. The signature can be used to verify that a TRO
was generated by a specific TRACE system. See the [Signing](signing) for a
technical discussion of implementation options.
